>> Dr. Max Gerson was a man
decades ahead of his time.
Even today, his methods
of healing cancer
would be subjected to ridicule
by the medical industry.
But the truth is
he was reversing
cancer and many other lethal
diseases from the 1920s on.
His work became so
well-known that he testified
before Congress with his
healed patients by his side,
but his work was buried and
obscured by the powers that be.
Since his death in 1959, his
daughter Charlotte Gerson
has kept the work alive
and has expanded on it
in spite of harassment
by the medical community.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We've been talking off camera
while Scott's been setting up
the lights and so forth.
And we've already talked about
so much that should be on tape.
I want to recapture some of it.
Because the reality is, you've
been around the cancer industry
for 60-some years now, right?
>> Probably more.
Because from the time I was
tall enough or big enough
to understand what
was going on--
I was maybe seven or eight
years old, maybe nine--
I knew how my father
was always in the middle
of being attacked.
First, it wasn't cancer.
It didn't get to be cancer
until he came into this country
when he was seriously
getting involved with cancer.
But before that,
he cured a woman
who was totally stiff
with rheumatoid arthritis.
She couldn't even open
her mouth to chew.
They had to put a
tube and there so she
could even get some food.
And after he treated her
for a year, she was dancing.
They attacked him for that!
Oh, he only did it for
publicity, for advertising.
So why don't you advertise?
>> Right.
>> They think of some
stupid things to say.
>> Yes, to discredit
it for obvious reasons,
there is a machine that is
well oiled called "the medical
industry," "medical industrial
complex," as it were.
Now by the way, I
want to say thank
you so much for joining us
and letting us join you today.
It's your 87th birthday.
And I looked at your skin--
everything about you
is spry, and lively,
and exudes good health.
So happy birthday.
>> Well, thank you.
>> [LAUGHS] So
you said this is--
since you were about nine years
old-- that would make it, oh,
gosh 79 years ago--
that's a long
time, that this has
been under attack from your
personal observational level.
Let's look at what your
father was doing, even back
in the '40s, where
he was actually
becoming known for his work and
had published papers by 1945.
What had happened?
What had he shown
up to that time?
And he did testify
in front of Congress,
so this was public record.
>> For one, he did not
set out to cure cancer.
He had no idea about cancer.
As a matter of fact, my own
grandmother, his mother-in-law,
developed breast cancer when
she had surgeries and spread
to her brain and died.
He couldn't help her.
He didn't owe anything,
what to do with cancer.
However, he was treating
other chronic diseases.
He didn't see a connection, OK?
It took an unusual case--
and he describes
that in his book,
in the Gerson cancer
therapy book--
that he even found out
that, with the therapy,
with good nutrition,
with the right food,
somebody could recover.
This opened his
eyes and his mind.
He had no idea.
Later, when he was curing
advanced tuberculosis--
and he wasn't touching
cancer at that time.
It was just a wild idea.
He was treating
patients, and he only
accepted those
that were certified
by three top authorities to
be dying and uninfluencable.
>> In other words, go home,
make yourself comfortable,
you're dying.
>> Lung tuberculosis.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
When he cured those, he noted
that some had allergies,
some had other diseases,
some had kidney damage,
some had high blood
pressure, some
had various other diseases.
And those two disappeared.
And that's where he parted
company with orthodox medicine.
He was trained like
every other doctor--
you would treat,
you'd diagnose, you
would treat that particular
disease with a drug,
or a surgery, whatever
is necessary, OK?
But he realized
for the first time
ever that when you are
able to restore and heal--
give the body the
nutrients to heal--
the body heals everything.
You cannot heal selectively.
That's true today.
>> Yes, yes, it
makes perfect sense.
How did your father
come across this?
Were these his own
personal habits?
>> Yes, yes.
>> So he was into--
>> He was very sick!
>> He was sick?
>> He had very severe migraine
headaches that kept him in bed
sometimes two and three days
a week in darkened rooms,
vomiting, nausea the side--
half side, you know--
brain-- headaches-- and
he couldn't function.
And he asked his professors,
his doctors, his teachers,
they said, well,
just read it up.
There's no cure.
You'll feel better
when you're 55.
But I'm 25.
I can't live like this.
He decided he has to
find a cure for himself.
That's why he set out.
And it took a long time.
He saw many doctors,
professors, teachers.
He saw all kinds of people,
and combed the literature,
and had things translated
for him until, one day, he
found one little paper for a
little unknown journal that
reported on a woman
who had changed a diet
and her migraines got better.
Diet?
Never heard anything like that.
Food?
Well, that's for the cook
in the kitchen, you know?
That's not for doctors.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>> So anyway, diet.
OK.
So he figured, well, maybe
I'm allergic to something.
That's possible.
Every baby can digest milk.
I should try milk.
I'll digest milk.
But you know exactly
what happened.
He took nothing but milk for
several days, a week or so,
and he was as sick as ever.
And then it occurred
to him that nowhere
in nature once an
animal is weaned
do they ever drink
milk ever again,
and certainly not milk
from a different species.
So he said, no, that's not it.
Our, let's call it,
physiological ancestor so
we don't step on any
religious toes here--
the simian animals that
have a certain resemblance--
once they are weaned,
they eat vegetarian.
They eat seeds, and nuts,
and greens, and leaves,
and that sort of thing-- roots.
So he started in Germany,
always very plentiful apples.
And as he ate nothing but
apples-- cooked apples,
and baked apples, and
applesauce, and raw apples,
and apple juice--
all apples, he was fine.
On that knowledge, he
built what he could eat.
He would add one
thing at a time.
If it agreed with him, fine.
If it didn't, he could have
a migraine in 20 minutes.
So he built up what he
called his "migraine diet."
And he was convinced it
was only for migraines
until a patient came to him
complaining of migraines.
And he had been postdoctoral.
After his medical
training, he had
worked with a top-notch
professor, professors
in Breslau, in Germany,
a name will come to me,
and he was a neurosurgeon,
one of the top ones in Europe.
So his shinge, my
father's shingle
read, "internal and
nerve diseases."
So this patient comes
to him with migraines,
internal disease, and
uses the migraine diet,
which my father says, all
the books say it's incurable.
I have migraine, and I'm
using this, and it helps me.
Why don't you try it?
He never claimed it
would cure anything.
And sure enough, the guy comes
back three, four weeks later,
and he says, yes,
Dr. Gerson, I'm fine,
and I have no more migraines.
But I also had
skin tuberculosis.
It's called lupus vulgaris.
>> OK.
>> And they find TB
germs in the lesions.
And that's cured, too.
My father said, no, no, no,
must have been something else.
This is an incurable disease.
But the guy pulled
out records from labs
that showed clearly that his
lesions had tubercle bacilli.
Let me see that.
He had no idea.
And then he said,
well, my shingle
said, "internal nerve disease."
This a skin-- it's
not an internal.
It's an external disease.
Do you know anybody else?
Oh, sure, the hospital
where I lived--
where I was taken care of.
My father said, look,
please send me some--
I'll treat them free of charge.
I just want to know.
And sure enough, he
sent other patients.
And sure enough, they
got the migraine diet.
And sure enough,
they were cured.
Well, that opened a new idea.
And this came to the ears of
a famous lung tuberculosis
specialist, [INAUDIBLE],,
that neurologist,
where he was studying--
his name was Forrester.
>> OK, Forrester.
>> OK.
All right, so this too-notch
tuberculosis specialist,
his name was [INAUDIBLE],,
Ferdinand [INAUDIBLE],,
well recognized.
And he heard about skin
tuberculosis healing.
And he said, well,
I want to see that.
And he asked my
father to come to him.
He was a professional.
My father was just a
little country doctor.
>> Yes.
>> Well, he demanded that
my father come to him.
Anyway, so my father
traveled there.
He went to Munich.
And in those days,
you didn't fly.
This was in the early
1920s and talked about it.
And he said, OK, we'll test it.
And he took 450 seriously ill
advanced skin tuberculosis
patients to try this
diet therapy, which
he didn't believe, of course.
>> 450.
How many of them--
>> He said if only one improves,
I'll believe every word you
say.
446 were cured.
>> [LAUGHS] OK.
>> And father--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> That threw him.
But my father said, hey,
if with nutrition you
can cure skin tuberculosis,
what about other forms of TB?
And people who are dying
of lung tuberculosis
and bone tuberculosis,
and syphilitic, and other.
It attacks any
organ in the body.
It's a germ.
>> Yeah.
>> Being a germ, it means the
immune system is weak, OK?
So my father went on from there.
He wasn't satisfied with
the skin tuberculosis,
although he should have
gotten the Nobel Prize for it.
Because the guy who discovered
the cause got the Nobel Prize.
>> Ah.
>> And he was the
first one to hear it.
>> Uh-huh.
>> On the other hand, he
was sued by other doctors.
>> This doesn't
surprise us today.
>> Because, you see, his shingle
read, internal never diseases.
This wasn't internal.
>> Isn't that amazing?
>> He was sued.
>> The small-mindedness and
pettiness in competition.
>> In those days, the judge was
a little bit more open-minded.
He said, he asked all of
these assembled doctors,
can you skin tuberculosis?
No.
Can you?
Well, why don't
you let him do it?
>> [LAUGHS] I love it.
OK.
>> So, well, anyway,
taken from there,
that's when he went on being
asked after he said, OK,
we have other forms of TB.
Then, he started to
cure lung tuberculosis,
including the wife of
Albert Schweitzer, who
had lung tuberculosis.
Already in both fields, they
couldn't do anything with her.
She was 51.
Well, she came to my father.
She lived till 86.
>> Didn't he also work on
Albert Schweitzer himself later?
>> Yes, ' but he had diabetes.
>> Yes.
>> And he worked
on their daughter.
She had a undiagnosable
skin disease.
>> And Schweitzer ended up
saying that your father was one
of the great medical
geniuses in history.
>> Yes, that's right.
>> Which it would certainly
appear, even to this day,
holds water.
Now, OK, so Schweitzer
brought his wife.
We're looking into the '40s
now before he started--
>> No, no, not the '40s.
This is in the
mid-'20s, early '30s.
>> Right, but I'm saying,
by the '40, he was--
he had done a number
of cancer studies.
>> By that time--
OK, when Hitler came in 1933,
we had to leave Germany.
We lived in Austria two years,
in France a year and a half,
in England for a few months, and
came to the US in late 1935--
Christmas.
>> OK.
>> OK?
>> And that's when, in '36,
is when he seriously studied
cancer.
>> OK.
>> And he found there
was a difference.
Later, he called the difference
between chronic disease
and cancer--
he said, in chronic disease,
the liver is weakened.
The liver is damaged.
The liver isn't functioning.
It's not doing its job.
In cancer, the liver is toxic.
And he didn't really
discover this thoroughly
and learn how to detoxify.
And I feel that's one of
his greatest contributions--
>> Absolutely.
>> --to understand toxicity
and to find a way to detoxify
the liver.
You know, we've had
an occasional patient
where they tell us-- a
doctor said, you're toxic.
So the patient, logically, asks,
well, what can I do about it?
And they always report, the
doctor just looks at you crazy.
He doesn't have any idea.
He doesn't know.
Or, if he knows, if he is at
all familiar with my father's
work or some similar work
nowadays, there's more of it.
>> Yeah.
>> He wouldn't pass it along.
>> What happened after
he testified in Congress?
We'll move into
the cancer studies.
This is, what, '45?
'44 or '45?
Around that.
>> I'm not quite sure.
>> Mid-'40s.
>> '43-'44, I'm
not sure exactly.
It's in the biography.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
What happened-- of
course, it should
have been big news
in the newspaper,
but the opposition had
taken care of that.
They had organized a big
reception for all the newspaper
people, with girls, and
with drinks, and with food,
and entertainment,
so that nobody
went to interview
Dr. Gerson on this.
They all went to the fun place.
>> Diversionary, yes.
>> And like I said, the AMA, the
Journal of the American Medical
Association, came
out in saying--
in Dr. Carson's
testimony, fortunately
for the American people
was not widely distributed.
>> That's beyond sad.
At this point, he
had already affected
the lives of, I assume,
thousands of people.
>> I wouldn't say thousands.
>> Hundreds?
>> Hundreds.
>> Hundreds of people.
>> But eventually,
it's thousands.
And we have, again,
reached thousands more.
>> Yeah.
>> And what's interesting,
we don't even know how many.
>> Right.
>> Because my father's book
was translated into seven
languages.
My present book, which has been
out now for a year and a half--
by the way, the first printing,
10,000 copies, has sold out.
We are just doing
the second printing.
That one is already translated
into nine different languages.
So people pick up the book.
We have no idea how many
make it, how many recover.
But every so often, my
son, Howard Strauss,
who lives in Carmel, who does
also a lot of work with this--
he has traveled to Japan,
and to Kuala Lumpur,
to Thailand, to Singapore.
He has done lectures
in Southeast Asia.
And people know of the work and
the languages, and they use it.
And every so often
somebody pipes up and says,
well, I have such
and such cancer
or I had this and this disease.
And I use the book
and recovered.
We would never
even know about it.
We don't know.
>> That's true.
You would have no
idea how many people
are using this in their home and
taking care of this themselves.
Well, now, at some point,
when he started seeing clients
in the United States,
at some point,
wasn't he restricted from
practicing in the United
States?
Did that happen?
>> No, he wasn't.
They didn't get that
far during his lifetime.
>> OK.
OK.
>> Not doing his lifetime.
>> And what happened after that?
>> It's only later.
>> Because he died in
the late 1950s, right?
>> He died on March 8, 1959.
>> Yeah.
OK.
>> OK.
It was after that when
Mexico developed [INAUDIBLE]
and people started to do
understand that there are other
ways than chemo or
poison, slash and burn--
that they started to pass laws,
and it started in California.
And I believe it was Reagan's
wife's father who was--
>> He was an MD, yes, uh-huh.
>> --who managed to
pass these laws--
first introduced them and
passed them first in California.
And then this spread
with the help of the AMA.
It spread all
through the country
so that it started
in California.
And it's not actually a law.
It's a health department
regulation that any physician
or health-trained person who
treats or diagnosis cancer
in any way except surgery
radiation and chemo is
a felon--
goes to jail, loses his
license, his livelihood,
and pays a $10,000 fine, for
the crime of healing cancer.
>> Yes.
>> You can't do that.
>> That's why you can find
so many clinics across
the border--
California.
You got into Tijuana,
you'll find all kinds
of clinics in Tijuana.
>> In Tijuana, there's a whole
lot of different clinics.
>> Yes.
>> And they have done
a really good job.
>> Yes.
>> There are a lot of them
that work, that heal people.
Not completely.
The Gerson therapy still has
the longest and best record
and most cancers that
patients recover and recover
the longest.
>> Let's get into that now.
So we have a--
and thank you so much for
the background on your father
in sharing that--
I really appreciate
it-- from its roots.
So here we have
many, many people
are coming to practitioners
of the Gerson techniques.
And let's talk
about what that is.
What happens when someone
comes to a facility
now for rebalancing their
health and detoxification?
>> You put it very succinctly,
but let me first elaborate
a little bit to make sense.
>> Sure, please.
Yeah.
>> OK, it is absolutely clear
that in a normal healthy
functioning body,
cancer is impossible.
The body has very powerful
defenses against cancer,
including the enzyme system,
the hormone system, the mineral
balances, the immune
system, circulation--
all kinds of powerful defenses.
If only one works well,
you can't have cancer.
So first thing you have to
do is damage, weaken, poison,
or, to a degree,
destroy your defenses.
And how do you do that?
By poisoning them, largely--
by getting the
wrong food, too much
pesticide in food,
and chemicalized food,
and too much animal
proteins, which are clearly
demonstrated by T Colin
Campbell, who wrote a book
called "The China
Study," where he clearly
states that the number-one
carcinogen in the world
is animal proteins, including
particularly milk-type
proteins.
>> Yes.
>> In the meantime, some
researchers in India have found
they call milk,
"the white poison."
>> Mm, OK.
>> OK.
So the first thing
you have to do
is damage, poison, weaken,
or destroy the defenses.
And it's not that
difficult nowadays.
It's difficult not to do it.
>> True, just drink the local
water that's been chemicalized.
>> The chemicalized water,
the fluoridated water,
the damaged soil, the damaged
earth, the damaged air,
and so on.
And once you have weakened
your body enough, that's when,
either by wrong food,
or toxins, or whatever,
that's when the body can
no longer maintain balance.
It tries very hard.
It can no longer
maintain balance.
That's when we are
told that all of us--
at one point or another,
we develop some wild cells.
But the body steps in,
gets rid of it, no problem.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> OK?
>> It's designed
toward survival.
>> OK.
But if that doesn't
happen, now it's
our job to restore
the body's defenses--
to restore the immune
system, the enzyme system,
the hormone balances, amino
imbalances-- everything.
And we don't work
with just one organ.
That's a mistake.
The body is not one organ.
It's a wonderfully
coordinated whole.
It's a beautifully
organized whole
that you have to deal
with every part of it.
OK, so what do we dd--
the first thing, of course,
is to help to detoxify.
The body is toxic.
We have to detoxify
the body, but we also
have to restore and
rebuild all the organ
systems, all the organ systems.
We don't work on just the
liver, although the liver is
the most important--
the liver, the pancreas, the
thyroid, the lungs, the heart,
and kidneys--
everything has to be restored.
So it just happens to work best
with the fresh-living juices.
Nature puts these foods, these
items, on the earth for us.
They not only help
us maintain health,
but they help us restore health.
The organ systems,
the organs that we
have poisoned, and starved--
you know, you can be
obese and starved.
>> Yes.
>> Because the
obesity is calories.
It's not nutrients, which
are enzymes, minerals,
and vitamins.
People don't understand.
That's nutrients!
>> And the juices have
all of these things.
>> The juices have
them in a living form.
>> Yes, the enzyme seems
to be the real key here.
Massive amounts of enzymes.
>> The enzymes are exactly--
they're very important things.
And they really only work
when they're live and fresh.
And they don't
work very well when
they're in pharmaceutical form.
>> Right, exactly.
>> OK, now, you know very
well that a lot of people are
beginning to be aware, that
they need to supplement
their nutrition.
Because it's so poor, the
McDonald's and so on--
>> Yes.
Well, and even if you
go to a supermarket
and buy from the produce
aisle, a lot of this
has been irradiated if it's
been imported and subjected
to massive amounts
of chemicals--
herbicides, pesticides.
So it's devoid of nutrition.
>> In the supermarket, unless
you buy some organic food--
some supermarkets now
have a certain amount--
a few organic things, has
been chemically treated,
and irradiated and
otherwise damaged.
OK, so the body is damaged,
is weakened, is poisoned.
You have to detoxify,
and restore, and rebuild.
But the juices do that.
Now if you talk to some
plumbers who clean septic tanks,
they'll tell you that they find
hundreds, sometimes thousands
of vitamin pills in there,
sometimes to the extent
that you can still read the
logo from the manufacturer.
>> Descriptive, thank you.
>> It's wonderful to take
pills, but that doesn't prove
anything.
>> Right.
>> It doesn't prove that
those nutrients do penetrate
the tissues, go into the body,
and start to work on restoring
the healthy cell systems and
the healthy organ systems--
that will protect you and
heal the disease, whatever
you're suffering from.
>> So let's say we're starting,
then, with, we need fresh,
whole, organic fruits.
And so your program, there's
a lot of juice involved.
If someone's going
through it properly,
they're taking in a
glass of juice an hour
and just flooding the
body with these minerals
and with these enzymes.
>> A glass of juice every hour.
>> Every hour.
And one of the big
ones is a combination
of carrot and apple, right?
>> Let's go into this--
one every hour.
When a patient is
capable of taking 13--
one every hour, 13 hours, is
capable of taking 13 glasses,
some people are so terribly ill,
they can't even handle that.
But many even seriously
ill ones can handle juice.
So they take 13 juices,
they get three full meals--
vegetarian.
And they get an extra
fruit plate in their room.
Total consumption
per day per patient--
20 pounds of fresh living food.
20 pounds.
Now neither you nor any
other healthy person
have ever eaten 20
pounds worth of food.
>> I'd say that's
definitely true.
>> Also, getting those foods
in the living, fresh, organic,
free-of-poision form, they
really penetrate the tissues.
They go into the cells.
But the cells are
full of toxins.
Those get pushed out,
because the body's affinity
is for the living, fresh,
organic living enzymes.
>> Yes.
>> When those poisons are
pushed out of the tissues,
not only is the
liver already toxic,
but those poisons go
into the bloodstream.
And did you know that the
blood stream, all of your blood
goes through the liver
once every three minutes?
>> No, I didn't know
it was three minutes.
No.
>> And it picks up, among other
things-- have many functions--
but it picks up any poisons.
But if the liver is loaded
with poisons already,
it can't even do that.
So it is extremely
important to detoxify
or you can't get at the problem.
You can't get nutrients in.
>> So part of this also is a
combination of using enemas
in combination
with the nutrients.
>> That's where
the enemas come in.
>> Yes, yeah.
And that's where my
father accidentally
found out about that.
This is nothing
that he invented.
Did you know the
[INAUDIBLE] gospel of peace,
the Dead Sea Scrolls
that were translated,
where Jesus talks about
how to take an enema?
>> Apparently, there was a
lot of information on health,
sustenance, and
maintenance of health.
>> My father didn't
invent enemas.
>> Yeah.
In the time of Louis the 14th,
Molire, the big French writer.
He wrote a play called
"Le malade imaginaire",
"The Imaginary Patient."
He takes an enema on stage.
OK, now this is in the
16th century, 17th century.
>> So we shouldn't be so
uptight about the notion?
The fact is, it comes in--
and we are-- in the United
States in particular,
there's a real phobia.
>> Let's include England.
>> And England, yes.
There's a phobia about it.
>> Interestingly, other
countries in Europe--
for instance, I had a very
good friend, a lady from Iran,
they use enemas.
They don't use coffee as much
as tea, because tea also-- tea
is very similar to caffeine.
>> And same in India
and many countries.
>> Many countries.
>> Yes.
>> It's just--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> You need to just
flush out the bowel.
>> Yes.
>> Get it cleansed out.
>> But it isn't the bowel.
>> The colon?
>> OK.
Because you see, my father
found it's the liver.
>> Ah, interesting.
>> It's the liver.
The liver has to be opened
to clear those toxins that it
keeps picking up.
And that's all very nice
to talk about the bowels,
but laxatives don't work.
Why not?
They don't reach the liver.
>> Right.
>> OK, he found that-- and this
was in a roundabout way due
to World War I-- this
is a long story--
but he found out that
caffeine rectally
is absorbed through
the hemorrhoidal vein
into the portal
system, into the liver.
And at the point of the liver--
and that was testified--
it was definitely
described by two professors
in a university in Germany,
in Gottingen in Germany.
They found it in animals,
but it worked in humans--
that the caffeine, rectally--
it doesn't work by drinking--
caffeine rectally
opens the bile duct
so the liver is able to let go.
>> I always wondered why--
what his science behind
that was, very interesting.
>> Yes, but it doesn't
work with coffee by mouth.
>> Yes.
>> On the contrary,
that was tested--
>> On the contrary, yes,
it toxifies the liver.
>> --and it spasms--
those same things
that open up, that you
need to open up the bile
ducts for the bile to let go.
>> Now this all said, this
has to be managed properly.
If a person is watching
this and is quite ill,
they really need
to contact someone
who knows how to manage this.
>> Yes, and of course, the
book shows what happens when
you're very ill, what happened
when you've had chemo,
what happens if you haven't
had chemo, and so on.
But you see, to prove that
we're not specifically
working on cleansing the
colon, like the bowel movement,
we do five enemas a day.
>> And does this cause
any kind of reaction?
>> Yes.
The bile duct to open
and pain disappears.
>> Ah.
>> The patients who come
on very heavy painkillers,
on morphine--
and that's not even enough.
They have to take other
painkillers-- codeine
and others besides.
In a week, the pain is gone.
Sometimes if they're not on too
heavy painkillers, in two days,
the pain is gone.
We've had patients who
testified-- one day,
I took three doctors around
the rounds in Mexico.
3 out of that 10
patients testified
that with their first coffee
enema, their pain disappeared.
>> Amazing.
>> But a laxative
alone won't do that.
>> Yes, and I understand why.
Yes.
>> But you have to
open the bile duct.
>> Yes.
>> And the coffee
enemas do that.
>> So when a person comes to
one of the Gerson practitioners,
how long does a program
like this generally take?
How long do they stay?
Because this is pretty--
20 pounds of food
and a glass of juice
an hour, you have to really
stay on top of this, obviously.
This is not a casual
commitment, OK.
>> The how-long questions
are the most difficult ones
to answer.
>> Yes, it's very
different, isn't it?
>> However, we have to get
back to the original premise,
namely that the liver is
damaged, the liver is weakened,
the liver is toxic.
You have to be able to restore
the liver, and it takes time.
>> Yeah.
>> My father found, in his
day, it took a year and a half.
We found it's not
enough anymore.
>> Because we're more toxic now.
>> People are much more toxic--
>> Yes.
>> --the soil, the earth,
the air, the water.
Everything is more toxic
than it was 50 years ago.
It takes two years.
>> Two years.
And now to what
degree of commitment,
this full-on commitment--
>> OK, it's still at least 10
glasses of juice and at least
one or two enemas a
day for two years.
They come down, not
from five, to one--
from five maybe to four
if the liver is now
capable of flushing
out the poisons.
But that's easy to tell because,
if it isn't, you get headaches,
and you get a little nausea,
and you don't feel good,
maybe you have a little pain,
you take an enema, boom, pain
is gone.
>> OK.
>> So if you didn't get enough
enemas, your body tells you.
>> So that's when you start
getting those side effects,
of feeling headachy?
>> That's something else again.
That's something else again.
>> OK.
>> Let's talk about what
it feels like in a body
that's ill, maybe has
even been through chemo,
or has cancer that is
advanced enough that--
>> Well, let's first talk about
non-chemo-treated patients,
because they respond
much better, of course.
They're not additionally
poisoned by the doctors.
>> Yes, let's do that.
>> OK, you can tell by the
way I pronounce the word,
my son always tries me on that--
that I'm not particularly
impressed by what
doctors do for people.
>> [LAUGHS] I can tell.
[LAUGHS] It's evident.
So let's go into what
is a traditional--
>> So the traditional patients
gets 13 glasses of juice,
five enemas a day.
His pain disappears, so he can
eat and drink the right food.
If he were to stop and eat, say,
a hamburger or a hot dog god
forbid, it would
immediately recur.
He would immediately have
pain, nausea, headache,
and all of that.
The body tells you.
>> OK.
OK.
>> So with that kind of therapy,
it takes two years to fully
restore all the organ's
systems, all the defenses,
all of the body that's damaged.
OK.
When we are dealing
with chemo patients,
now that's very interesting.
We can't give them
as heavy detoxifying,
because if they detoxify
too fast, a lot of the chemo
is released at once.
>> Yeah.
>> And it has happened before.
We knew my father--
it wasn't in the book.
>> Yeah.
>> He didn't talk about chemo.
And we didn't know.
So when we first started to
even admit chemo patients,
we wouldn't admit them for a
while before we admitted them.
When we admitted them
and we started them
on the full detoxifying, which
is five coffee enemas a day,
13 glasses of juice, and, every
other day, castor oil by mouth
an enema.
When we did that
with a chemo patient,
they got very seriously ill.
We almost lost them.
They went into intensive care.
Why?
The body released all
the chemo at once.
>> Yeah.
>> Now please remember, this
is an arithmetic situation.
When the doctors give chemo--
and it tells you that in all
of the material that comes
wit the chemo drugs--
the body will excrete much
of it in the first 48 hours.
Much of it is usually around
50%, 45% to 50%, which means,
if you have had
10 shots of chemo,
five or more still
in your system,
even a year or two after
that, they're still there
in your system, but it
cannot get rid of them.
If we now do very
intensive detoxifying,
they're all released at once.
So you'll get five chemo
shots in one treatment.
You'll get a terrible overdose.
>> Oh, absolutely,
yes, I see this.
>> It's like we are
giving them an overdose.
We don't touch this stuff.
But we have to be
extremely careful
and not forcing the body
to release it too fast.
>> OK.
>> So chemo pre-treated patients
have to be treated differently.
They don't get five enemas
a day, they get three.
They get no castor
oil for six months
until the body is able to get
rid of much of the accumulated
chemo.
Then, we very cautiously
give them a little tiny bit
of castor oil, only rectally in
the enema, until we are feeling
fairly sure that with a little
more castor oil and release
of those still-remaining chemo,
we won't overchemo them, OK.
>> OK, so I think we
have a fairly good idea.
And people, again,
they can read the book,
and they can contact
the institute-
>> It's very carefully
outlined in the book.
And it's not in my
father's book because he
didn't have to deal with it.
>> Exactly.
OK, so in your book--
and that's on the
website, and we're
going to make that
available to everybody.
>> Yes, it's on the website.
And you can buy it with Amazon.
And of course, you can buy it at
the Gerson Institute and Amazon
Totality Books, it's available.
>> And this one is
"Healing the Gerson Way?"
>> "Healing the Gerson Way."
>> And that's by you, Charlotte.
>> Yes, and it's updated.
It has the latest.
There's another book, it's
called "The Gershon Therapy,"
but that's already six,
seven, eight years old,
and it's not as good,
it's not as complete.
>> OK, now let's look at--
>> And let me just please add,
I have a co-author on that,
Beata Bishop.
She's a wonderful writer.
She is a marvelous editor.
But she's also a 28-year
recovered melanoma patient.
She had stage IV
melanoma 28 years ago.
She was given two to six months
on the outside 28 years ago.
She's very much alive.
She just started a
Gerson Clinic in Hungary.
And she helped me with my book.
>> How fabulous, you
were able to link up.
Let's say a person watching this
is feeling pretty good, maybe
young and feeling pretty
healthy, maybe not optimal,
and wants to start incorporating
some of these practices
into their daily life.
>> Why not?
>> But one thing you talk about
in the book I found interesting
is about the type
of juicer one uses.
Because you can find
all kinds of juicers.
You can find them at every
major discount warehouse
store for $50 to $90.
But you're saying
those centrifugal,
convenient little
juices actually
are only extracting a small
percentage of the nutrients.
>> A very small percentage.
>> But you told me,
I think, 7% to 15%--
>> Up to about 7% of
the available nutrients.
>> Of the available nutrients,
>> OK, nevertheless,
especially for children,
if they drink that juice
rather than the sweet sodas--
>> Oh, yeah.
>> It's vastly preferable--
OK, much, much better.
>> And then what happens
when you go to the next one,
the Champion Juicer?
>> The Champion Juicer
will extract 12% to 15%.
>> OK.
And it's good.
Even patients, it'll help
them recover, but not cancer
patients, not good enough.
>> Not for cancer.
OK, but for a
healthy person that
wants to just really boost their
nutrient levels, it's still OK?
But you say there's another type
that is much more effective--
>> It's much more effective.
And it's not the only type.
The one that we feel
is absolutely the best,
the top of the line,
it's called the Norwalk.
And that one has an
interesting history,
if you have another few minutes.
>> I do.
>> Norwalk was put together
by a gentleman with the name
of "Norman Walker."
Norman Walker was ill.
And nobody could determine
what was wrong with him.
He felt terrible.
He was weak.
He was weary.
He wasn't functioning.
He was 38, 39 years old.
They sent him home to die.
There was nothing
they could do for him.
They couldn't figure out
what was wrong with him.
And he thought, OK, well,
I'll have to find my own way.
And that's what he did.
And he decided he wanted
fresh living fruits,
and he couldn't even eat.
He wanted juices.
So he designed a juicer.
And that's now-- it's
continued to be improved.
But the juicer is the kind my
father also found was the best.
You grind the material first.
And, interestingly,
the ground-up apples
and the ground-up carrots--
the acid of the apples
help the mushed carrots
to release a lot
of the minerals.
Then, you put it in the
cloth under pressure.
And that will extract up to 50%,
55%, up to 55% of the minerals.
You can't ever
extract all of them.
>> OK, now, so let's say
a person is going to go
to a varying degree on
their commitment to juicing.
What about the notion of
just eating the fresh apples
and eating the fresh
carrots, other than you
can't take that many in.
>> That's wonderful.
How many can you eat?
That's the trouble.
>> Right.
But still, you can get
100% of the nutrients
from them with fewer, right?
Yes, how many carrots and
apples can you eat a day?
>> Well, not that many.
Not that many.
>> Even if you
eat three or four?
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Five apples.
That would make
roughly one and a half,
barely two glasses of juice.
We give 13.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> That's not enough.
Yeah.
You really need the
saturation of the nutrients.
>> The cancer will get
ahead of you in a hurry.
We have to get
ahead of the cancer.
>> And, according to
the news media and all
the advertisements,
I see on TV, geez,
it would seem that they're
on top of it out there
in the medical
industrial complex.
I see pink ribbons
on the back of cars
and in all the
ladies journals, page
after page of these
advertisements-- really
upsetting to me.
>> Yes.
>> It's becoming
almost a status thing,
a status symbol to sport your
pink ribbon for breast cancer.
There's something
terribly wrong with this
when they're deliberately
suppressing the very things
that can help heal it.
>> Well, let me give you a
little bit of a documented
background.
You may recall-- although
you're very young--
you may recall that 1972,
our then President Nixon
declared the war on cancer.
Excuse me.
[COUGHS] And he said, if we push
enough money at this problem,
we'll solve it.
And that year, 1972, numbers,
figures, 220,000 Americans
died of various cancers.
Exactly 25 years
later, Newsweek and I
believe it was also a USA
Today published the new data.
>> This would have been
around '97, late '90s.
>> Exactly 25 years, in '97.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
The new data was that that
year 560,000 Americans
died of cancer.
And pancreatic
cancer had jumped.
Breast cancer had jumped.
Lung cancer had jumped--
39 billion research
dollars later, OK.
All of this research
money goes for what?
Something that makes
money-- chemotherapy.
>> Lots of money.
>> Lots of money went
into chemotherapy.
And all the money people donate
for supposed breast cancer
research goes into more chemo,
more poison, more misery,
when people get this, and
feel terrible, and die
in a horrible death.
That's what they're paying for.
But a lot of the people-- some
of the top people of American
Cancer Society--
they get "million
dollars a year" salaries.
That's the research
you pay for when
you buy these pink ribbons.
>> Yes, and you told me off
camera before we got going
a stat.
You were likening this
radiation and chemo holocaust
to the original-- the World
War II Holocaust in numbers.
>> Well, that's
the trouble, too.
You see, when my father
had a demonstration
of his cured patients before
a congressional committee in--
I believe it was '43, I'm
not sure of the date--
he showed five-- he
actually had 10 with them--
but he showed five cured
patients that he had treated
with the Gerson therapy--
that had been sent home to die.
And he was the first person
ever to show recovered patients
before Congress.
And, of course, it also went
into the congressional record.
OK, at that time,
of course you would
think that this sort of
thing went right and all
over the newspapers.
But, no, the opposition,
they had organized--
>> That social event.
>> --newspaper special and a
party with women, and song,
and with liquor.
>> So the story disappeared?
>> So the story disappeared,
except the AMA said,
fortunately for the
American people,
this got very little publicity.
That's true.
However, in the meantime,
since, let's say '44,
we are now in 2009.
That's, what, 55 years later?
>> Yep.
>> My arithmetic is correct?
And at this point,
we have not 560,000.
We have over 600,000,
700,000 people--
>> Actually, 65 years
later, isn't it?
'45,
>> '45, '50.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, 65, yeah.
Worldwide, OK, and since they
suppressed this information
in all of those years, the
pharmaceutical companies,
and AMA, and the doctors that
are making huge sums of money
on cancer, have killed more
people than Hitler and Stalin
together.
>> Hm, yeah.
>> OK.
It is a medical holocaust.
There is no question about it.
And they make huge
sums of money,
and they pump you full of
chemo, maybe temporarily,
even the chemo, yes,
poisons the tumor tissue
until it also poisons the
rest of your body and you die.
It's a terrible, terrible thing.
But that's where
the big money is.
There is not just billions.
There's trillions.
Actually, in 1996 when Ralph
Morris published his book,
"The Cancer Industry," and
that's, now, 13 years ago.
He showed that, at that time,
the cancer industry in the US
alone was worth
$100 billion a year.
A year.
That doesn't cover
the rest of the world.
>> That says a lot about
why you're not going to have
your doctor recommend that
they go to your website,
for example.
Like you said earlier,
you can't make money off
of a bag of carrots.
>> You can't make money
on a bag of carrots.
>> [LAUGHS] Yeah.
>> But you know something very
interesting also happened.
There is a researcher
who has done
research on food and
nutrition because they also
killed his father.
His father used to collect from
the American Cancer Society.
When he had cancer, they
didn't want to know of him.
They threw him out.
OK, but Gary Null,
who is nutritionist--
>> Gary Null, yes.
>> OK, you know of him?
>> Yes.
>> He put him back together,
and he was doing very well,
until one day Gary Null was
traveling in Europe for his
work.
And they got after the
father and said, you know,
we should really be able
to help you and finish up
all of those stories and
really fix you up properly.
They did bring him in, and they
talked him into taking chemo.
They murdered him.
>> Yeah.
>> Gary Null, of course, was
not very well to speak about all
of this.
He did not like them.
So he, at one point,
was doing research
on alternative and
nutritional therapy.
He also wanted to research
my father's testimony
before Congress.
Do you know it has been removed
from the congressional record?
>> Ah.
>> What does it take to remove
a portion of the congressional
record?
>> Some clout.
Some clout.
OK, I know you have
your birthday party.
People who are probably
arriving as we're speaking.
So just to kind of
wrap it up, a person
doesn't have to any longer
nervously pack their little bag
and, in a frightened way, go
across the border into Tijuana
to find the kind of
help they need anymore.
There actually is
help, but it really
requires a lot of
self involvement.
You have to take a lot of
responsibility yourself.
>> You have to take
responsibility.
Unfortunately, it
also takes some money.
>> Yeah.
>> If you do need to go to the
clinic, you can do it at home.
It is very difficult because
of healing reactions,
and their sponsors, and so on.
It's not easy.
But to go across the border,
of course, you have to pay.
And that's another thing.
The AMA has sent out
one of their people
who happens to be a doctor
and a lawyer, a lady, who
went around all the
insurance companies
and made sure that the
insurance companies,
when they write
medical insurance,
they say it doesn't
cover abroad.
So they don't pay--
>> They won't pay.
>> --in Mexico.
So it does require some money.
And, unfortunately,
also, Medicare and so on
doesn't pay for a juicer and it
doesn't pay for organic food.
It does take a
little extra money.
It does cost more to make
13 glasses of juice a day.
It does cost more.
Even though you don't
go into a restaurant,
and you don't buy
steaks, and you
don't buy lobster, and all
of the expensive cheeses
and so on, but it does
cost a little more.
So it does take a little money.
>> It takes a little money.
It takes some time.
>> And that's what the
orthodox people are beginning
to understand, that they
get the poor people.
People who have a little
money, they buy the DVDs,
they buy the books, they
buy the information,
they buy the juicers.
They help themselves.
They don't always
tell their doctors.
>> Yeah.
Well, all I can say
is I'm sure you're
going to be hopping many, many
years into the future on this
and just continuing
to take this forward.
And thank you for a lifetime
of incredible work, you
and your father.
>> I'd like to add a little
something about myself.
>> Yes.
>> I am really well.
I have no hormones.
I take no drugs.
I take no chemicals, and
poisons, and drugs, and so on.
And you see my skin is clear.
>> Yes, I was looking at it.
>> And the other thing is this.
Then they say, OK, you were
born with a good constitution.
Not so.
By the time I was
eight years old,
I already had migraines
like my father had.
And his mother, it was genetic.
OK, and if I ate
the wrong foods,
I would get migraine headaches.
So I learned early on I
had to eat the right foods.
However, when we left
Germany originally,
we didn't have our own
cooking, our own apartment,
our own place.
And we had to go out.
We would go into
vegetarian restaurants,
but it was restaurant
food, and it
was probably salted, and so on.
And my own defenses that were
none too good to begin with
were down.
And my father was always
working with TB patients.
I got bone tuberculosis.
In those days.
I was 12, so that was in 1934.
There were no antibiotics,
nothing for TB.
And bone tuberculosis
was deadly.
It was quite definitely
a fatal disease.
And, of course, they
could have cut my leg off,
but I had a hole in my bone.
Obviously, he healed it.
Here I am.
>> And here you are.
>> OK, but you see, I had
to be careful all my life.
I had to eat the right foods.
I had to avoid chemicals.
I had to avoid salt, and
meat, and fish, and chicken,
and all of that.
I had to avoid the
chemicalized stuff
and eat organic and vegetarian.
Do I have osteoporosis?
No.
Do I take calcium?
Do I take hormones?
No, I don't need it, because
it's a milk, and the hormones,
and the calcium that
causes osteoporosis.
>> So the byproduct of your
original frailty is having
to treat yourself properly and
live to an incredibly healthy,
and energetic, and active age.
>> Old age.
>> Old ages, yes.
>> OK, let's face it--
pushing 90!
>> Well, yeah, 70 would
be considered old age.
OK, we don't like to
use the "old" word,
but I guess there you have it.
>> I don't care.
It's a number.
As far as I'm concerned,
it's a number.
I'm busy.
I'm active.
Can you see me sitting
in front of a TV
in a rocker doing nothing?
>> [LAUGHS] No.
>> I can't do that.
>> No, that's not your path.
>> I go once a week to Mexico.
I talk to all the patients.
And I do lectures, and help
them understand the therapy,
and I help encourage
them, and so on.
It's important to me.
And I write the newsletter.
I write the reports
on the patients.
And we do some of
the corrections,
and I do a lot of interviews.
And I'm busy.
>> You're wearing me out
just hearing about it.
Well, on that note,
thank you so much, again,
for taking time on your
birthday, your 87th birthday.
And we're going to drop by
and have a glass of juice,
hopefully, before we have
to hit the road again.
Thank you so much for your--
For more on Charlotte
and her father's work,
you can pick up a copy of her
book, "Healing the Gerson Way."
The book gives
loads of information
on how to do this yourself and
where to purchase your juicers,
your food, and so forth.
You can find her
book at amazon.com.
Until next time, thanks
for watching CMN.
[MUSIC PLAYING]